README.md, before:

# Tensorflow Template

A deep learning template with tensorflow and it will help you to change just the core part of model every time you start a new tensorflow project, 
of which the idea is from another project [MrGemy95/Tensorflow-Project-Template](https://github.com/MrGemy95/Tensorflow-Project-Template).
The proj can work well, but it separates the model, train and summary to 3 parts which makes the process more readable but complex. 
And it seems to lack the interface of evaluate and predict.

This proj merges them into a single class and adds more template code. 
The interface of the base class refer to the TF API [tf.estimator.Estimator](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/master/api_docs/python/tf/estimator/Estimator).
Actually, this proj can not work better than it. It just makes the process more clarity for you, and you can freely change them.


## Quick Start

The example is about the iris classification question. You can find the data and code at [examples](./examples)

1. Create a model class which inherit the [BaseModel](tensorflow_template/base/base_model.py)

    All you need to do is finish the following four functions.
    
    ```python
    class IrisModel(BaseModel):
        def _init_graph(self):
            pass
    
        def train(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
            pass
    
        def evaluate(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
            pass
    
        def predict(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
            pass
    ```
2. Build the graph
    
    The basic part:
    - the `tf.placeholder`
    - the net
    - the output (self.logits & self.prediction)
    - the loss (self.loss)
    - the train_op (self.train_op)
    
    others:
    - the metrics(such as `tf.metrics.accuracy`)
    - the summary(ref `tf.summary.FileWriter`)
        
    ```python
    def _init_graph(self):
        self.features = tf.placeholder(tf.float32, [None] + self.config.n_feature, 'features')
        self.labels = tf.placeholder(tf.int32, [None], 'labels')
    
        net = self.features  # input_layer
        for units in self.config.n_units:
            net = tf.layers.dense(net, units=units, activation=tf.nn.relu)
            # net = tf.layers.Dense(units=units, activation=tf.nn.relu)(net)
    
        self.logits = tf.layers.dense(net, self.config.n_class, activation=None)
        self.prediction = tf.argmax(self.logits, axis=1)
    
        self.accuracy, self.update_op = tf.metrics.accuracy(labels=self.labels,
                                                            predictions=self.prediction,
                                                            name='acc_op')
    
        self.loss = tf.losses.sparse_softmax_cross_entropy(labels=self.labels, logits=self.logits)
    
        self.optimizer = tf.train.AdagradOptimizer(learning_rate=0.1)
        self.train_op = self.optimizer.minimize(self.loss, global_step=self._global_step)
    ```
3. The `train()` logic

    The `dataset` is a [tf.data.Dataset](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/master/get_started/datasets_quickstart) object.
    
    Of course, the model does not limit to use it. You can choose the style of read data you like. 
    
    ```python
    def train(self, dataset, buffer_size=1000, *args, **kwargs):
        for _ in range(self.config.n_epoch):
            ds_iter = dataset.shuffle(buffer_size).batch(self.config.n_batch).make_one_shot_iterator()
            while True:
                try:
                    features, labels = self.sess.run(ds_iter.get_next())
                    loss_val, _, _ = self.sess.run([self.loss, self.train_op, self.update_op],
                                                   feed_dict={self.features: features, self.labels: labels})
                    acc_val = self.sess.run(self.accuracy)
                    logger.info("Step {}: loss {}, accuracy {:.3}".format(self.global_step, loss_val, acc_val))
                except tf.errors.OutOfRangeError:
                    break
            self.save()
    ```

4. The `eval()` and `predict()`

    Similar to the train
    
    ```python
    def evaluate(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
        self.mode = self.ModeKeys.EVAL
        ds_iter = dataset.shuffle(1000).batch(1).make_one_shot_iterator()

        acc_ret = dict()
        i = 1
        while True:
            try:
                features, labels = self.sess.run(ds_iter.get_next())
                prediction, _ = self.sess.run([self.prediction, self.update_op],
                                              feed_dict={self.features: features, self.labels: labels})
                logger.debug("labels is {}, prediction is {}".format(labels, prediction))
                # it's better to run `update_op` first, then run `accuracy`
                acc_val = self.sess.run(self.accuracy)
                logger.info('Accuracy is {:.3} of {} test samples'.format(acc_val, i))
                acc_ret[i] = acc_val
                i += 1
            except tf.errors.OutOfRangeError:
                break

        return acc_ret
     
    def predict(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
        self.mode = self.ModeKeys.PREDICT
        ds_iter = dataset.shuffle(1000).batch(1).make_one_shot_iterator()

        pred_ret = []
        i = 1
        while True:
            try:
                features = self.sess.run(ds_iter.get_next())
                prediction = self.sess.run(self.prediction, feed_dict={self.features: features})
                pred_ret.append(prediction)
                logger.info("the prediction of No.{} is {}".format(i, prediction))
                i += 1
            except tf.errors.OutOfRangeError:
                break

        return np.array(pred_ret).flatten()
    ```
    
5. Run it
    
    Here `Config` is a subclass of Bunch object. If you want to use it, just `pip install bunch`.
    
    ```python
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    
        config = Config('ex', [4], 3)
        config.ckpt_dir = "D:/Tmp/log/example_ckpt/"
        config.n_epoch = 10
        config.n_feature = [4]
        config.n_units = [10, 10]
        config.n_class = 3
    
        model = ExampleModel(config)
    
        from utils.data_iris import *
    
        ds_train = get_dataset('train')
        ds_eval = get_dataset('eval')
        ds_predict = get_dataset('predict')
    
        logger.debug(model.global_step)
    
        model.load()
    
        logger.debug(model.global_step)
    
        model.train(ds_train)
        logger.debug(model.global_step)
    
        acc_ret = model.evaluate(ds_eval)
        print(acc_ret)
    
        pred_ret = model.predict(ds_predict)
        print(pred_ret)
    ```
    
## Contributing

I always want to replace the `tf.placeholder` with `tf.data.Dataset` but no idea. 
You can see my trouble at [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49355553/how-to-write-a-template-for-most-tensorflow-deep-learning-project?answertab=votes#tab-top).
If you have a good resolvent, welcome it.

If you use the template to build some model. Welcome it to the examples.

Commit message:

update the example of cnn_text_classification

README.md, after:

# Tensorflow Template

A deep learning template with tensorflow and it will help you to change just the core part of model every time you start a new tensorflow project, 
of which the idea is from another project [MrGemy95/Tensorflow-Project-Template](https://github.com/MrGemy95/Tensorflow-Project-Template).
The proj can work well, but it separates the model, train and summary to 3 parts which makes the process more readable but complex. 
And it seems to lack the interface of evaluate and predict.

This proj merges them into a single class and adds more template code. 
The interface of the base class refer to the TF API [tf.estimator.Estimator](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/master/api_docs/python/tf/estimator/Estimator).
Actually, this proj can not work better than it. It just makes the process more clarity for you, and you can freely change them.

## Table Of Contents

<!-- TOC -->

- [Quick Start](#Quick Start)
- [Examples](#Examples)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Quick Start

The example is about the iris classification question. You can find the data and code at [examples/iris](./examples/iris)

1. Create a model class which inherit the [BaseModel](tensorflow_template/base/base_model.py)

    All you need to do is finish the following four functions.
    
    ```python
    class IrisModel(BaseModel):
        def _init_graph(self):
            pass
    
        def train(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
            pass
    
        def evaluate(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
            pass
    
        def predict(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
            pass
    ```
2. Build the graph
    
    The basic part:
    - the `tf.placeholder`
    - the net
    - the output (self.logits & self.prediction)
    - the loss (self.loss)
    - the train_op (self.train_op)
    
    others:
    - the metrics(such as `tf.metrics.accuracy`)
    - the summary(ref `tf.summary.FileWriter`)
        
    ```python
    def _init_graph(self):
        self.features = tf.placeholder(tf.float32, [None] + self.config.n_feature, 'features')
        self.labels = tf.placeholder(tf.int32, [None], 'labels')
    
        net = self.features  # input_layer
        for units in self.config.n_units:
            net = tf.layers.dense(net, units=units, activation=tf.nn.relu)
            # net = tf.layers.Dense(units=units, activation=tf.nn.relu)(net)
    
        self.logits = tf.layers.dense(net, self.config.n_class, activation=None)
        self.prediction = tf.argmax(self.logits, axis=1)
    
        self.accuracy, self.update_op = tf.metrics.accuracy(labels=self.labels,
                                                            predictions=self.prediction,
                                                            name='acc_op')
    
        self.loss = tf.losses.sparse_softmax_cross_entropy(labels=self.labels, logits=self.logits)
    
        self.optimizer = tf.train.AdagradOptimizer(learning_rate=0.1)
        self.train_op = self.optimizer.minimize(self.loss, global_step=self._global_step)
    ```
3. The `train()` logic

    The `dataset` is a [tf.data.Dataset](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/master/get_started/datasets_quickstart) object.
    
    Of course, the model does not limit to use it. You can choose the style of read data you like. 
    
    ```python
    def train(self, dataset, buffer_size=1000, *args, **kwargs):
        for _ in range(self.config.n_epoch):
            ds_iter = dataset.shuffle(buffer_size).batch(self.config.n_batch).make_one_shot_iterator()
            while True:
                try:
                    features, labels = self.sess.run(ds_iter.get_next())
                    loss_val, _, _ = self.sess.run([self.loss, self.train_op, self.update_op],
                                                   feed_dict={self.features: features, self.labels: labels})
                    acc_val = self.sess.run(self.accuracy)
                    logger.info("Step {}: loss {}, accuracy {:.3}".format(self.global_step, loss_val, acc_val))
                except tf.errors.OutOfRangeError:
                    break
            self.save()
    ```

4. The `eval()` and `predict()`

    Similar to the train
    
    ```python
    def evaluate(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
        self.mode = self.ModeKeys.EVAL
        ds_iter = dataset.shuffle(1000).batch(1).make_one_shot_iterator()

        acc_ret = dict()
        i = 1
        while True:
            try:
                features, labels = self.sess.run(ds_iter.get_next())
                prediction, _ = self.sess.run([self.prediction, self.update_op],
                                              feed_dict={self.features: features, self.labels: labels})
                logger.debug("labels is {}, prediction is {}".format(labels, prediction))
                # it's better to run `update_op` first, then run `accuracy`
                acc_val = self.sess.run(self.accuracy)
                logger.info('Accuracy is {:.3} of {} test samples'.format(acc_val, i))
                acc_ret[i] = acc_val
                i += 1
            except tf.errors.OutOfRangeError:
                break

        return acc_ret
     
    def predict(self, dataset, *args, **kwargs):
        self.mode = self.ModeKeys.PREDICT
        ds_iter = dataset.shuffle(1000).batch(1).make_one_shot_iterator()

        pred_ret = []
        i = 1
        while True:
            try:
                features = self.sess.run(ds_iter.get_next())
                prediction = self.sess.run(self.prediction, feed_dict={self.features: features})
                pred_ret.append(prediction)
                logger.info("the prediction of No.{} is {}".format(i, prediction))
                i += 1
            except tf.errors.OutOfRangeError:
                break

        return np.array(pred_ret).flatten()
    ```
    
5. Run it
    
    Here `Config` object is a subclass of Bunch object. If you want to use it, just `pip install bunch`.
    
    ```python
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    
        config = Config('ex', [4], 3)
        config.ckpt_dir = "D:/Tmp/log/example_ckpt/"
        config.n_epoch = 10
        config.n_feature = [4]
        config.n_units = [10, 10]
        config.n_class = 3
    
        model = ExampleModel(config)
    
        ds_train = get_dataset('train')
        ds_eval = get_dataset('eval')
        ds_predict = get_dataset('predict')
    
        logger.debug(model.global_step)
    
        model.load()
    
        logger.debug(model.global_step)
    
        model.train(ds_train)
        logger.debug(model.global_step)
    
        acc_ret = model.evaluate(ds_eval)
        print(acc_ret)
    
        pred_ret = model.predict(ds_predict)
        print(pred_ret)
    ```
    
## Examples

- iris classification [[code](./examples/iris)]
  - [TF Tutorials](https://www.tensorflow.org/get_started/get_started_for_beginners)
- mnist classification (TODO)
  - [TF Tutorials](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/layers)
- cnn-text-classification [[code](./examples/cnn_text_classification)]
  - The original [paper](http://arxiv.org/abs/1408.5882) and [github](https://github.com/yoonkim/CNN_sentence)
    
## Contributing

I always want to replace the `tf.placeholder` with `tf.data.Dataset` but no idea. 
You can see my trouble at [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49355553/how-to-write-a-template-for-most-tensorflow-deep-learning-project?answertab=votes#tab-top).
If you have a good resolvent, welcome it.

If you use the template to build some model. Welcome it to the examples.
